---
layout: post
title: Daily Journal Assignment, Motherboard & CPU
---

### Formal Introduction to Daily Journal & Computer Hardware Continued

- We were formally introduced to the daily journal assignment that we will be conducting throughout the whole semester. Mr. Chauhan was kind enough to provide us with a detailed rubric with examples of journals that could be written based on what is taught that day.
  - I’m very excited to be doing these daily journals because I truly feel they will help me understand the material taught in class better and also be available whenever I want to go back and revisit the topics we learned in class.
  - It’s also a way I will be able to share my thoughts, opinions, and feelings on the work, assignments, and lessons we will be doing in class without the worry of being judged.

**_Motherboard_**

- The PSU is the heart and so the Motherboard is both the skeleton and the circulatory system
- The motherboard is the main circuit board inside the computer
- The motherboard is also known as ‘MoBo’ or ‘mainboard’
- All the components are attached to the motherboard, including the CPU and RAM
- Motherboards also include a BIOS stored in an EEPROM (electrically erasable programmable read-only memory) chip on the board
- The BIOS (basic input/output system) initializes and tests the hardware and bootstraps the operating system
- The BIOS has settings for all the components connected to the motherboard

We also watched a detailed video outlining all the parts and components of a motherboard. To summarize I’ve attached an image labeling all the parts of a motherboard.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/b2pd3Y6aBag" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**_Motherboard Continued..._**

- We were also able to get to look and touch a real-life motherboard that Mr. Chauhan took from a real computer to show us. Which was very kind of him.
- Only the connections where the copper is connected are soldered on and it is all done through automation.

**_CPU - Central Processing Unit_**

- The CPU is a singular chip on the motherboard and it is known as the “brain” of the computer
  - More then 1 billion transistors densely packed on an integrated circuit
- Most of the processing operations occur here
- Billions of operations happen per second
- The transistors can amplify and work as a switch and they do billions of work at every moment the computer is on
- The downside of having so many transistors working at the same time is the great amount of heat being generated. This is why a heatsink and fans are quite critical.
- I can better explain how heatsinks work through the image attached below:

<iframe src="https://northslopechillers.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Heat-Sink-03-1024x582.png" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" fitscreen width="1024" height="582"></iframe>

**_CPU - Central Processing Unit Continued..._**

- The story of how Mr. Chauhan’s laptop was melted a long time ago really helped me understand the importance of heat and making sure your systems are being cooled down.
