---
layout: post
title: Breadboards - Introduction & RGB Assignment | May 16 - 18
---

### After months of TinkerCAD and Circuit Analysis we are finally introduced the breadboards!

**What is a breadboard?**

- A breadboard is a plastic board with holes that let you plug in and connect various electronic components.

- You’ll find long rows of holes, called “strips.” Each breadboard has two types of “strips”: **_bus strips_** and **_terminal strips_**. Bus strips let you connect the board and its electronic components to a power source. Terminal strips let you actually plug various electronic components in and connect them to each other.

**How a breadboard works**

- Electric component leads are inserted into holes that are arranged in a grid pattern on the surface of the breadboard.
- A series of internal metal strips serve as jumper wires. They connect specific rows of holes.

**Breadboard Connections**

<iframe src="https://os.mbed.com/media/uploads/mbedofficial/breadboardconnections.jpg" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen width="655" height="267"></iframe>

**Bus Strips**

- A bus strip lets you connect the breadboard to a power supply so that the other electronic components on the breadboard can be powered. To give your breadboard power, you’ll use the bus strips to connect to a power supply.

- Bus strips are usually found at the outer edges of a breadboard or in between the terminal strips, and are almost always narrower than the terminal strips.

- A typical breadboard will have two bus strips: a column for ground, which is marked in blue or black coloring, and a column for power, also called voltage, which is marked in red.

- Bus strips are also sometimes called rails, power rails, power buses, or just buses.

**Terminal Strips**

- Most of the area in a breadboard is taken up by terminal strips. Terminal strips are made up of small holes, or perforations, where you can plug in your electronic components.

- Terminal strips are connected in specific ways based on their rows and columns. It’s important to understand the layout of the terminal strip on the breadboard you’re working with. Make sure you check the labeling of your breadboard before plugging things in!

**Center groove (or DIP Support)**

- Most breadboards have a notch or a groove that runs down the center, through the middle of the terminal strips. This line down the middle serves a number of functions.

- The center groove on a breadboard allows certain types of integrated circuits called dual in-line packages to be connected in a way that straddles that line. It also shows where the terminal strips have been divided and which columns are connected, and it also allows breadboards to be easily stacked on top of each other for storage or larger projects.

**Mr. Chauhan's Guidelines and Tips (Remember These They're Coming From a Professional)**

- Use as few jumper wires as possible. Use the breadboard to connect components.
- Keep jumper wires as short as possible. A jumble of wires is hard to troubleshoot, and delicate.
- Make the breadboard circuit layout close to the layout of the schematic. This will make it easier to verify.
- Place IC chips in the middle of the breadboard.
- Work from a schematic and check off the component and wires as they are implemented on the breadboard.
- Have a classmate check your circuit for errors.

**Why Breadboards?**

- Time, and Money.
- It takes less time to push component ends into holes on a breadboard than to solder.
- Printed circuit boards (PCBs) cost $ and take time to produce.
- Both PCB and soldered circuits are hard to correct.
  - Temporary circuits are usually breadboarded before doing anything more permanent.

### Time To Put All This Learning To The Test:

Using everything we have learned about breadboards we are now going to build 2 circuits and a schematic.

1. RGB circuit in series on the breadboard with 9V power source
2. RGB circuit in parallel on the breadboard with 9V power source
3. Create online schematic for circuit

<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/publicalbum@latest/embed-ui.min.js" async></script>
<div class="pa-gallery-player-widget" style="width:100%; height:480px; display:none;"
  data-link="https://photos.app.goo.gl/SSxf1UVVnMGYqjKr8"
  data-title="RGB Circuit Assignment"
  data-description="2 new items added to shared album">
  <object data="https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/GcmrQYZffrKlg_9521HwRXsuGcN2THiXm6RaxnJihwdjrmHVnAMwAUDFQHiwJHm8c81fAWQq24js_dmpZ72Ne5dS_KoDokVKvSE8CaanlGCqgl2OXlhTriIh66IEla5TvtANjWrn6Q=w1920-h1080"></object>
  <object data="https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/tRHPjkLA3SLG8i6BdjksVwMADuddoDx3uTlAI3GJGM7VF1W6eoYGYlTfa_-WpL_HTSkPR8oQPVP3Gr2dyxke68VPIFWCFn4n6csVJ1X4mkATj-SMGyBbi6TLi-ckx6iCz5dYGgQKpg=w1920-h1080"></object>
</div>
